# Gened Classes Dataset
### Dataset
This repo contains the dataset scraped from the [UIUC course explorer][1]. It contains the general education courses for fall 2020, thier name, description, credit hours, general education requirements, average GPA of fall 2019, the instructor with the highest GPA (denoted by best here, indicative of the best in terms of the GPA) of fall 2019, and the average GPA of the class of the same instructor. The last three columns of data have been extracted from [this dataset][2] provided [here][3]. The main objective is to combine the data from courses and gpa datasets for freshman to help them decide on their general requirements courses and maximise their time and credits and help them find what they really want to learn. Instead of going through hundreds of courses and clicking on each of them to find out what the course is about, this data set brings it all to one place. The average GPA is included for those who are not interested in what they study but how easy it is to get good grades. The best instructor is included to let the students which instructor to look for in the course for the best understanding, assuming ofcourse that GPA is indicative of a better teacher. If someone has a better heuristic to judge this, feel free to make a pull request. There were duplicates in the orignal dataset of that was actually scraped where the course name (e.g. AAS100) were different but the course title (e.g. Intro to Asian American Studies) were the same. These are probably The dataset "courses with atleast 2 gened reqs - duplicates.csv" is the original one
### Combinations
The second part of this small project is combinations.exe, which goes through the dataset and makes combination of 2 courses whose general requiements do not overlap with each other. This includes the cultural studies restriction that students have to one take course that is designated as Western/Comparative Culture(s), one that is designated as Non-Western Culture(s), and one that is designated as U.S. Minority Culture, so only same cultural study course type is consider an overlap but not so with the rest of the general requirements where any type is considered an overlap. This also includes the restriction that courses that simultaneously satisfy the humanities and social science general requirements are not allowed to taken as general education classes but this is satisfied by the dataset itself which doesn't contain the such courses since none were present on the sites that were scraped. This makes combinations of 2 classes because most engineering majors have 2 gened classes in fall.
### Scraping
scraping.py scrapes (ofc) the general requirements courses of fall 2020 from the [UIUC course explorer][1]. If you want to scrape the course explorer yourself, feel free to use my code or change it to your requirements. Note that I used selenium instead of requests as the course explorer generates the page of each course through Javascript and isn't loaded when requests gets the webpagew while selenium waits for the whole page to load. 
To run scraper.py, you need to install the requirements present in the requirements.txt through pip using:
```pip install -r requirements.txt ``` and the opera driver for selenium [here][4] under the Browsers section. Opera because that's my current browser but feel free to download another. The only piece of code to change should be the line 35 of scraper.py where the driver is launched.
### Making Combinations
combinations.py makes the combinations based on whether the 
### Usage
1. Download the repo by clicking the green "Clone or download" button and click download as ZIP.
2. Open "courses.csv" in Excel, Google Docs or something similar.
3. To help in readability, expand the size of the title and description column and enable wrap text on the columns (In Excel, right click on the column, click on Format Cells, go to Alignment and enable Wrap text. If the row height is wrong, click on format in the home tab on the ribbon and click AutoFit Row Height).
4. Go over the courses (about 135 much better than 300 on course explorer) and see which ones you want to study or not. Mark the ones you don't want to study with either "n" or "no" under the "Consider" (last) column and the ones you do want to study  with anything else other than blank and save it in the same folder as the this program. You can leave the ones you don't want to skip blank and enter "y" to "Consider blanks?" below. 
5. Run combinations.exe. The program will skip all the courses with "no" and also blanks if you didn't enter "y" for "Consider blanks?", and makes combinations of 2 for the rest of the courses. 
6. It will show you all the possible combinations and after that you can enter the course you want to study the most and it will give you the courses that don't overlap with the requirements of the course you entered. You can then look through those courses and find the combination that works for you the best.  

[1]: https://courses.illinois.edu/gened/DEFAULT/DEFAULT
[2]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wadefagen/datasets/master/gpa/uiuc-gpa-dataset.csv
[3]: https://github.com/wadefagen/datasets/tree/master/gpa
[4]: https://www.selenium.dev/downloads/
